# YOUR PROJECT TITLE: SpeechMaster Simulator
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/XX8CASSRN8A>
#### Description: I have a deep love for speaking in front of people. Being able to showcase my knowledge and opinions on diverse topics in the world, while overcoming that persistent stage fright, has always felt so rewarding. To help many gain confidence and practice in the public speaking sector and hopefully experience similar feelings, I created this application. It encompasses skills learned in multiple programming areas, including HTML, JavaScript, Python, and Flask. Throughout this article, I will delve into the details of each part of this application and explain the underlying processes. Enjoy my journey in CS50's final project!
## Python:
#### App.py was the location where all the logic for functions such as score calculation, word generators, database creation, and user creation was completed. For the user creation section, including logging in and registering, as well as helpers.py, I based it mainly on the finance application that I have completed in problem set 9. In the register function in app.py, you can implement your own user where your username is unique relative to other users. If any requirement is not fulfilled, such as the username being unique or the password matching the text within the confirmation field, the apology function is called, returning an error message. Once the user is created, you are redirected to the login page where you can enter your details, and as a result, a session will be created where any data entered in the system will be stored for the current user in the database. The login-required function from helpers.py prevents you from participating in any of the games or accessing your profile and game stats without logging in.
#### Once you click on the play button and record your speech based on the random word given(the logic for this will be talked about in depth later), the updateProfile in app.py will be called. The random word can only be a noun and I was able to do this through usage of the [wonderwords](https://pypi.org/project/wonderwords/) library. To analyze the speech and award an accurate score, I recalled [Coleman-Liau index](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/psets/2/readability/#background) from readability of problem set 2, which returns the grade level that the level of the text qualifies for. I multiplied their grade level by 2 and added the result to their score. Their score was also subtracted from any time they uttered uh or um, as well as when the time of their speech exceeded 60 seconds or preceded 45 seconds, and finally, if they did not mention the word they were directed to talk about. Once the score is finalized, I will call the db. execute functions to update scores and experience. At the top of the page, the gameUsers.db was created, which included all of the user's game dat, such as currentXp, score of the latest game they played, and their level. Where a negative score would have no effect on the experience, a positive score will be added to the user's XP. If the positive score plus the xp they already have is greater than the threshold required((level *10)xp), they will level up. Lastly, the page redirects to the score.html, where their data of the game as well as their overall stats, like their level, is displayed to the user. If the user were to click on the score page from the homepage instead of being redirected to it after the game, it would simply show their level and the score of their latest game by calling db.execute with Select on the gameUsers.db database.
## HTML and JavaScript
#### The files named register.html, layout.html, and login.html followed a similar logic to that in the finance application. There are input areas where the user can type in their username and password in both register.html and login.html and buttons listen in both where they will click to submit the information into app.py. Now, once the user is logged in, they will be directed to the index.html or the homepage. In the homepage, I added 4 different pictures of excellent public speakers, such as Theodore Roosevelt, so the user can feel inspired and advance to the game section with confidence.I also created 5 different buttons with texts such as logout, register, Advance(play),etc. It will redirect you to the page corresponding to the button's description. Moving on, the play.html file is where I wrote the logic for turning the user's voice into readable text.
#### Using headers, I first explained the instructions and rules. Then, a div with the id "result" was created where the transcribed text will be stored. Two inputs were written, which are hidden and will store the transcript and the duration of speech and these two inputs will be sent to app.py to calculate the score of the user. To create a way to recognize speech, I used JavaScript's built-in [speech API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Speech_API/Using_the_Web_Speech_API). I set recognition to English, and set it to continuous so if the user stops talking for just a little bit of time, the recognition will not stop, and made it so that there will only be one single unique transcript being recorded by setting maxAlternatives to 1. When I click the start button that I created above the "result" tag, recognition will start and store the current time through the function Date.now();. Once I click the same button again, recognition will stop. In that time frame when the user talks, recognition.onresult will detect speech and run a function which stores all of it in text. I had to use the boolean property .isFinal to make sure that the API does not second guess itself or send double the inputs, and only stores voice input into text that it is confident of. This is stored in the "result" box so that the user can see what they are saying, and is also stored in the hidden transcript box. Finally, the recognition.stop() function is called ending the voice recognition, and the elapsed time is calculated by subtracting the current time from the start time noted when the user started recording. This gets stored in the hidden elapsedTime input talked about previously. All of this is sent to app.py through form.submit() which submits all the input stored in transcript and elpasedTime.
#### Score.html simply takes the transcript, score, level,duration, xp, and grade level of the text and displays it. While displaying the stats on the left side of the page or in the left container in the page-wrapper <div>, and to the right container will be the transcript. I also created a progress bar with the id "xp progress"where it stores a value xp and also the threshold xp needed to level up, and then creates a percentage which it uses to fill the bar.
## CSS
#### I wrote a layout.html file that was very familiar to that of finance application as a foundation as I was not very familiar with css styling. However, as I did more research on it using AI and as well as it's [documentation](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_css.asp) after finishing all the backend part of my application, I blocked layout styling in my files and decided to do it completely from scratch except for register.html and login.html, in which it inherited the light navbar on the top. Moving on, I created a body for example in index.html file and used background:linear gradient to add a gradient color background to the page. I also learnt how to position images and other objects using top, left, right, and bottom parameters in play.css where I positioned the images. Furthermore, I was able to use transform to do mirror flips on images like I did on .img-left1 in index.css for one of the Obama pictures. I explored various font families and styled the texts of each button to be of different fonts in the homepage(index.html). In score.css, I learnt about flex and utilized it to lay the containers side by side. I also used box-shadows, added borders to add emphasis on the information inside the boxes. Finally, in play.css, I sized the text in h1,h2,h3 in decreasing order, added colors to the startbutton and the background of the page, and finally, made the <div> with id result large and white so it looks like a text box and is easy to reade. 
## Final thoughts
#### I was confronted with countless bugs, and ran this application many times, tinkering with everything and sometimes rewriting entire sections of code. When I finally completed that one test that ran without an issue, I truly felt like a real fully fully-fledged programmer. Being able to create an entire app that I feel can be truly helpful to society, from not even being able to code simple programs in C, I feel proud of my journey as a coder and innovator. Thank you for reading all of the information and knowledge that I utilized for this application, and this has truly been a CS50!



